README.md, before:

# GraphRAG Evaluator

A comprehensive repository demonstrating AI agent development, evaluation, and red teaming using Microsoft's Agent Framework and Azure AI services.

## 📁 Repository Structure

This repository contains four main components:

- **`evaluation/`** - Evaluate GraphRAG implementations using Azure AI Evaluation SDK
- **`red-teaming/`** - Test AI agents for safety and security using Azure AI Red Team tools
- **`agent-framework/`** - Samples and tutorials for building AI agents with Microsoft Agent Framework
- **`graph-mcp/`** - GraphRAG Model Context Protocol integration

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Docker** - Required for dev container environment
- **VS Code** - Recommended for development
- **Azure Subscription** - For Azure OpenAI and Azure AI services
- **Python 3.10+** - Automatically configured in dev container

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd evaluation-sdk
   ```

2. **Open in Dev Container**
   - Open VS Code
   - Install the "Dev Containers" extension
   - Run: `Dev Containers: Reopen in Container`

3. **Configure environment variables**
   
   Each component requires its own configuration. Create `.env` files or configure `settings.toml` as needed:

## 📚 Components

### 1. Evaluation Pipeline (`evaluation/`)

Evaluate GraphRAG implementations against datasets using Azure AI Evaluation SDK.

**Features:**
- Query multiple GraphRAG implementations concurrently
- Generate evaluation datasets automatically
- Run local or cloud-based evaluators
- Evaluate groundedness and QA performance

**Setup:**
```bash
cd evaluation
```

Configure `settings.toml` with your Azure OpenAI endpoints:
```toml
[openai_defaults]
api_key = "your-api-key"
api_base = "your-endpoint"
api_version = "2025-01-01-preview"

[models.azure_openai_chat.gpt5]
model = "gpt-5-chat"
deployment_name = "gpt-5-chat"
```

**Run:**
```bash
python main.py
```

**What it does:**
1. Loads dataset from `assets/data.jsonl`
2. Queries configured GraphRAG implementations
3. Generates evaluation dataset
4. Runs evaluators (groundedness, QA)
5. Outputs evaluation metrics

### 2. Red Teaming (`red-teaming/`)

Test AI agents for safety vulnerabilities using Azure AI Red Team SDK.

**Features:**
- Automated adversarial testing
- Multiple attack strategies (easy, moderate, difficult)
- Risk category detection (violence, hate, sexual content, self-harm)

**Setup:**
```bash
cd red-teaming
```

Configure `settings.toml` with your Azure AI project:
```toml
[project]
subscription_id = "your-subscription-id"
resource_group_name = "your-resource-group"
project_name = "your-project-name"
agent_id = "your-agent-id"
```

**Run:**
```bash
python main.py
```

**What it does:**
1. Connects to your Azure AI project
2. Scans your agent for safety risks
3. Tests across multiple risk categories
4. Generates comprehensive safety report

### 3. Agent Framework Samples (`agent-framework/`)

Interactive tutorials for building AI agents with Microsoft Agent Framework.

**Samples:**
- `0.python-basic-agents.ipynb` - Create basic agents with different providers
- `1.python-tools.ipynb` - Add custom tools to agents
- `2.python-workflows.ipynb` - Build multi-agent workflows

**Advanced Examples:**
- Tracer and Aspire integration
- Agent workflows with DevUI
- Declarative agent configurations
- Azure deployment with `azd`

**Setup:**
```bash
cd agent-framework
```

Create `.env` file:
```env
# GitHub Models
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token
GITHUB_ENDPOINT=https://models.inference.ai.azure.com
GITHUB_MODEL_ID=gpt-4o-mini

# Azure OpenAI
AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=your_endpoint
AZURE_OPENAI_CHAT_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=your_deployment
```

**Run:**
Open any notebook in VS Code and follow the instructions:
- `1. Samples/0.python-basic-agents.ipynb` - Start here for basics
- `2. Advanced/` - Explore advanced patterns

## 🛠️ Development

### Install Dependencies

Each component manages its own dependencies via `pyproject.toml`:

```bash
# For evaluation
cd evaluation && uv sync

# For red-teaming
cd red-teaming && uv sync

# For agent-framework samples
cd agent-framework && uv sync
```

### Project Structure

```
evaluation-sdk/
├── evaluation/          # Evaluation pipeline
│   ├── main.py         # Entry point
│   ├── settings.toml   # Configuration
│   └── assets/         # Datasets
├── red-teaming/        # Safety testing
│   ├── main.py         # Entry point
│   └── settings.toml   # Configuration
├── agent-framework/    # Agent samples
│   ├── 1. Samples/     # Basic tutorials
│   └── 2. Advanced/    # Advanced patterns
└── tools/           
    └── 2. graphrag-mcp/    # GraphRAG MCP
```

## 📖 Additional Resources

- [Microsoft Agent Framework Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/agents/)
- [Azure AI Evaluation SDK](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk)
- [Azure AI Red Team](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/develop/simulator-interaction-data)
- [GraphRAG Documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/graphrag/)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues for bugs and feature requests.

## 📄 License

See LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Add terms of use to README
Added terms of use section to README.md outlining the lack of support and warranty for the sample script.

README.md, after:

# Terms of use
This sample script is not supported under any Microsoft standard support program or service.
The sample script is provided AS IS without warranty of any kind. Microsoft further disclaims
all implied warranties including, without limitation, any implied warranties of merchantability
or of fitness for a particular purpose. The entire risk arising out of the use or performance of
the sample scripts and documentation remains with you. In no event shall Microsoft, its authors,
or anyone else involved in the creation, production, or delivery of the scripts be liable for any
damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages for loss of business profits, business
interruption, loss of business information, or other pecuniary loss) arising out of the use of or
inability to use the sample scripts or documentation, even if Microsoft has been advised of the
possibility of such damages

# GraphRAG Evaluator

A comprehensive repository demonstrating AI agent development, evaluation, and red teaming using Microsoft's Agent Framework and Azure AI services.

## 📁 Repository Structure

This repository contains four main components:

- **`evaluation/`** - Evaluate GraphRAG implementations using Azure AI Evaluation SDK
- **`red-teaming/`** - Test AI agents for safety and security using Azure AI Red Team tools
- **`agent-framework/`** - Samples and tutorials for building AI agents with Microsoft Agent Framework
- **`graph-mcp/`** - GraphRAG Model Context Protocol integration

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Docker** - Required for dev container environment
- **VS Code** - Recommended for development
- **Azure Subscription** - For Azure OpenAI and Azure AI services
- **Python 3.10+** - Automatically configured in dev container

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd evaluation-sdk
   ```

2. **Open in Dev Container**
   - Open VS Code
   - Install the "Dev Containers" extension
   - Run: `Dev Containers: Reopen in Container`

3. **Configure environment variables**
   
   Each component requires its own configuration. Create `.env` files or configure `settings.toml` as needed:

## 📚 Components

### 1. Evaluation Pipeline (`evaluation/`)

Evaluate GraphRAG implementations against datasets using Azure AI Evaluation SDK.

**Features:**
- Query multiple GraphRAG implementations concurrently
- Generate evaluation datasets automatically
- Run local or cloud-based evaluators
- Evaluate groundedness and QA performance

**Setup:**
```bash
cd evaluation
```

Configure `settings.toml` with your Azure OpenAI endpoints:
```toml
[openai_defaults]
api_key = "your-api-key"
api_base = "your-endpoint"
api_version = "2025-01-01-preview"

[models.azure_openai_chat.gpt5]
model = "gpt-5-chat"
deployment_name = "gpt-5-chat"
```

**Run:**
```bash
python main.py
```

**What it does:**
1. Loads dataset from `assets/data.jsonl`
2. Queries configured GraphRAG implementations
3. Generates evaluation dataset
4. Runs evaluators (groundedness, QA)
5. Outputs evaluation metrics

### 2. Red Teaming (`red-teaming/`)

Test AI agents for safety vulnerabilities using Azure AI Red Team SDK.

**Features:**
- Automated adversarial testing
- Multiple attack strategies (easy, moderate, difficult)
- Risk category detection (violence, hate, sexual content, self-harm)

**Setup:**
```bash
cd red-teaming
```

Configure `settings.toml` with your Azure AI project:
```toml
[project]
subscription_id = "your-subscription-id"
resource_group_name = "your-resource-group"
project_name = "your-project-name"
agent_id = "your-agent-id"
```

**Run:**
```bash
python main.py
```

**What it does:**
1. Connects to your Azure AI project
2. Scans your agent for safety risks
3. Tests across multiple risk categories
4. Generates comprehensive safety report

### 3. Agent Framework Samples (`agent-framework/`)

Interactive tutorials for building AI agents with Microsoft Agent Framework.

**Samples:**
- `0.python-basic-agents.ipynb` - Create basic agents with different providers
- `1.python-tools.ipynb` - Add custom tools to agents
- `2.python-workflows.ipynb` - Build multi-agent workflows

**Advanced Examples:**
- Tracer and Aspire integration
- Agent workflows with DevUI
- Declarative agent configurations
- Azure deployment with `azd`

**Setup:**
```bash
cd agent-framework
```

Create `.env` file:
```env
# GitHub Models
GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token
GITHUB_ENDPOINT=https://models.inference.ai.azure.com
GITHUB_MODEL_ID=gpt-4o-mini

# Azure OpenAI
AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=your_endpoint
AZURE_OPENAI_CHAT_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=your_deployment
```

**Run:**
Open any notebook in VS Code and follow the instructions:
- `1. Samples/0.python-basic-agents.ipynb` - Start here for basics
- `2. Advanced/` - Explore advanced patterns

## 🛠️ Development

### Install Dependencies

Each component manages its own dependencies via `pyproject.toml`:

```bash
# For evaluation
cd evaluation && uv sync

# For red-teaming
cd red-teaming && uv sync

# For agent-framework samples
cd agent-framework && uv sync
```

### Project Structure

```
evaluation-sdk/
├── evaluation/          # Evaluation pipeline
│   ├── main.py         # Entry point
│   ├── settings.toml   # Configuration
│   └── assets/         # Datasets
├── red-teaming/        # Safety testing
│   ├── main.py         # Entry point
│   └── settings.toml   # Configuration
├── agent-framework/    # Agent samples
│   ├── 1. Samples/     # Basic tutorials
│   └── 2. Advanced/    # Advanced patterns
└── tools/           
    └── 2. graphrag-mcp/    # GraphRAG MCP
```

## 📖 Additional Resources

- [Microsoft Agent Framework Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/agents/)
- [Azure AI Evaluation SDK](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/develop/evaluate-sdk)
- [Azure AI Red Team](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-studio/how-to/develop/simulator-interaction-data)
- [GraphRAG Documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/graphrag/)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues for bugs and feature requests.

## 📄 License

See LICENSE file for details.
